

**WATER**

**(Necessity for saving)**

  
  
1\. **Mr Ivan Baptist** asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the
plentiful rain in the recent pass and the likelihood of more rain as this is
the rainy season, there needs to be any apprehension among the public in
regard to water rationing or a necessity for them to save water.  
  
**The Minister for National Development and Communications (Mr Lim Kim San)
(for the Prime Minister):** Mr Speaker, Sir, the frequent rainfall which we
have experienced since September has replenished our reservoirs which are now
90% full. With the coming of the North-east Monsoon and the promise of more
rain. I am glad to say that there is no danger of water rationing in the near
future.  
  
However, this does not mean that people can now revert to wasteful habits in
the use of water. Whatever the weather, water conservation must be a way of
life for us in Singapore. There is a lesson to be learnt from the devastating
effects of the unexpected drought in Europe in the last summer. If such a
drought could hit Europe, a place hitherto unknown for severe dry spells, the
chances of it affecting this part of the world are even greater. We in
Singapore, with our limited water storage capacity, cannot afford to wait for
a dry spell to threaten before renewing our water conservation habits.
Moreover, it is good housekeeping to economise in the use of water which is
becoming more expensive to treat and, therefore, to consume.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist (Potong Pasir):** Sir, does the Minister agree that emphasis
should always be on not to waste water? During a dry period saving water is
essential, but during a period of plentiful rain, saving water males little
sense.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** It is a good habit to save water. It is a habit like
brushing your teeth every day. Once you have acquired a good habit. I think
you should not drop it. To save water is also to save on your F'UB bills and
water is getting more expensive to treat. We have exhausted the normal sources
of water supply and are going into unconventional means of obtaining water
which is going to be more costly. So keep the good habit of saving water.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, what I feel is this. Does not the Minister think
that wasting water is something that he should emphasise because in actual
fact there is -  
  
**Mr Speaker:** Mr Baptist, are you asking a supplementary question or are you
expressing your feeling?  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, does not the Minister want to re-emphasise this
business of wasting water rather than saving water? Because to save water,
people may have one bath a week, and that is not practical if there is
plentiful rain.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** It is a question of emphasis. He can emphasise whichever
way he wan!s, so long as he saves water. If one does not waste water, one is
already saving water. So it is a question of emphasis. I put it as saving
water. He wants to emphasise on the slogan. "Don't waste water." Either way,
it means he uses less water.

**ISLAND-WIDE BLACKOUT**

**(Action to prevent recurrence)**

  
  
2\. **Mr Ivan Baptist** asked the Prime Minister what caused the recent
blackout that lasted for many hours resulting in trauma for the majority of
the population, and what action is being taken to ensure that there will be no
distress of this sort again.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San (for the Prime Minister):** Sir, I think Members of the House
know that the electricity system in Singapore has grown tremendously in the
last 10 years. Generating capacity of the system has grown from 464 MW
(megawatts) in 1966 to 1.270 MW now. In the process of expansion the system
has become more and more complex and sophisticated and certain automatic
safety devices such as the in-built mechanism of "tripping" has to be
introduced. "Tripping" means an automatic disconnection from the system in the
event of a fault.  
  
On the day in question a new generator of 120 MW capacity was commissioned at
Senoko Power Station and it was feeding 30 MW of electricity into a circuit
for distribution. At the same time, another generator generating 90 MW was
sending electricity through the same circuit. This circuit was carrying 120 MW
of power for distribution.  
  
Just before 4.00 p.m, the burner of the boiler of the new generator failed and
this generator tripped. This tripping automatically disconnected the
transmission circuit and the other generator could not transmit power to the
system. The sudden loss of 120 MW caused instability in the system which in
turn triggered the tripping of the other generators at Jurong and Pasir
Panjang `B' Power Stations. This resulted in an island-wide blackout.  
  
With such a widespread blackout it takes time to restore the electricity to
the system. But this can only be done progressively. Within half an hour after
the blackout, electricity had been restored to the first areas and the
situation had returned to normal within 6Â« hours. The blackout was so
widespread because, for reasons of economy necessitated by the high fuel oil
price, our spinning reserve was less than the capacity of the largest
generating unit in operation. However, having had this experience now. the PUB
will, in spite of the increased operating cost, be providing spinning reserve
equal to the capacity of the largest generator in operation until the Senoko
Stage I generators, i.e, the new 120 MW generators, are fully commissioned at
the end of this year. By then, the teething problems encountered in
commissioning a new power station will have been ironed out and we may revert
to the more economical mode of operation, that is, having a spinning reserve
less than the capacity of the largest generators in operation.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy (Anson):** Sir, can the Minister enlighten the House on
this point? Four cables which were wrongly connected had burst because the
engineers had not done their work properly. Have the engineers been working
well or not?  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Sir, I am not aware that cables had burst as a result of
wrong connection. As far as I know, 120 MW of electricity was transmitted
through one circuit. 30 MW was generated by a new generator and, as with all
things new, there are bound to be initial teething problems. The boiler of
this generator developed a fault and this tripped off the generator. The
automatic safety device which prevents users from being electrocuted and the
system from being unduly damaged, then also tripped off the other generators.
The blackout was not due to a wrong connection of cables.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, this blackout occurred on the eve of Deepavali. I
would like to know whether this will happen again on Christmas eve?  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** The timing was just accidental. Sir.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, are there no standby generators to cater to this
sort of problem?  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Sir, there are generators standing by. That is what is
meant by spinning reserve. To illustrate, let me put it this way. You have a
10 horse-power car and you are travelling in it. To be sure of getting to the
end of your journey you have another 10 horse-power car following you all the
time. In case the car you are travelling in should develop engine trouble, you
can then switch over to the reserve car and continue to your destination. Our
largest generator at present has a capacity of 120 MW. To enable the system to
continue providing electricity should our largest generator fail, there should
be 120 MW generating capacity standing by. This standby is known as spinning
reserve. However, because of the high cost of fuel we did not have that much
spinning reserve. But now, having experienced it and knowing that there will
be teething troubles with new generators and in spite of high costs, we are
going to provide spinning reserve equal to the largest generator we have in
service.

**EAST COAST EXPRESSWAY TO ANSON ROAD**

**(Land reclamation and completion date)**

  
  
3\. **Mr Hwang Soo Jin** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications (a) when the land reclamation linking the East Coast to Anson
Road will be completed and, when completed, what uses the land will be put to;
(b) when the proposed expressway itself will be completed and, when completed,
how many lanes of traffic it will carry; and (c) whether, after reclamation
and completion of the expressway, floods will occur during those periods when
heavy rains coincide with high tides.  
  
**The Minister for National Development and Communications (Mr Lim Kim San):**
Sir, the land reclamation linking the East Coast to Anson Road is scheduled
for completion by early 1978. Part of the reclaimed land will `be used for the
expressway linking the East Coast Parkway to the City and the usage of the
rest of the land is now under study.  
  
The expressway will be completed at the end of 1980. There will be four lanes
of traffic in each direction.  
  
There are pockets of low-lying areas between the East Coast and Anson Road
which may be flooded when heavy rains coincide with high tides, irrespective
of whether there was reclamation or not. In fact, Mr Speaker, Sir, just now on
my way to Parliament, part of Telok Ayer Street was flooded even when there
was no rain. These are areas which are very low and, regardless of whether
there is rain or not, high spring tides will flood these areas. We also had
hydraulic model studies which confirm that the reclamation will not in any way
aggravate the flooding. The proposed expressway itself will not be subject to
flooding as the road will be higher than the flood level.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, the Minister knows that there is no rain today
and yet Robinson Road and parts of that area are flooded. Is there any policy
to block the water from flowing into the drains?  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Sir, as I said just now, those areas which I saw today
were flooded in spite of the fact that there was no rain because they are
below high tide level. So if we prevent the tides from flowing in at all we
will also be preventing any water from flowing out. But since it is only a few
days in a year that we have high spring tides which can cause flood to this
area. I do no~ think it advisable to block the drains. Otherwise for the rest
of the year dirty water will not be able to flow out to the sea from these
low-lying areas.

**KALLANG RIVER**

**(Construction of bridge)**

  
  
4\. **Mr Ng Yeow Chong** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications (a) what type of bridge it is proposed to build across the
Kallang River as part of the East Coast Expressway; (b) when work will
commence and how long it will take to complete; (c) whether the proposed
bridge will cost more than the bridge also to be built across the Singapore
River and by how much; and (d) if he will confirm that the proposed bridge
will not hinder the passage of ships to and from the shipyards and slipways
along the Kallang River.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** The type of bridge proposed for the Kallang River crossing
is a high-level prestressed concrete bridge.  
  
Work will commence on 1st January, 1977 and is scheduled to be completed at
the end of 1980.  
  
The bridge over Kallang Basin which is 1099 metres is estimated to cost $35.7
million and that over Singapore River which is 403 metres $18.7 million.
However, the two bridges are linked and will form a continuous elevated
structure.  
  
The proposed bridge over the Kallang River will not hinder the passage of
ships to and from the shipyards and slipways as it is 29 metres above high
water level.

**NEW SINGAPORE GENERAL HOSPITAL**

**(Operational Date)**

  
  
5\. **Mr Lee Yiok Seng** asked the Minister for Health (a) when the new
Singapore General Hospital will be fully operational; (b) what new medical
equipment it will have; and (c) what new medical treatment and specialties
will be available.  
  
**The Minister for Health (Dr Toh Chin Chye):** Mr Speaker, Sir, the new
Singapore General Hospital is scheduled for completion by June/July 1980. When
completed, the Hospital will have a total bed complement of 1612, scheduled
for commissioning as follows:-

    
    
    
     August 1978 			466 beds
    
     December 1978			471 beds
    
     September 1979			150 beds
    
     July 1980                      525 beds
    
                                ------------
    
                                   1612 beds
    
                                ------------    
    
    

  
  
On new medical equipment, there is need to economise and therefore existing
equipment which are still serviceable will be transferred to the new Hospital.
Some of the more modern and sophisticated equipment to provide new services
and to upgrade existing services will be bought. Among the new equipment that
will be bought are:-  
  
(1) linear accelerators for the treatment of cancer;  
  
(2) modern diagnostic equipment using radioisotopes for the diagnosis of
various medical and surgical conditions;  
  
(3) modern diagnostic x-ray equipment, including the EMI Scanner for
diagnostic procedures;  
  
(4) operating theatre equipment, including monitoring facilities, medical gas
supply systems. etc, which are normally used in surgical work;  
  
(5) x-ray equipment, resuscitation and diagnostic equipment for the Accident &
Emergency Department.  
  
Under new medical treatment and specialities, there will be the following:-  
  
(1) A 32-bed Day Surgery Department for patients requiring minor surgical
procedures and investigations such as endoscopy which do not require full-day
hospitalisation. As of this moment, such patients have to be admitted into the
hospital and thus they form a substantial number of in-patients in the
hospital.  
  
(2) A Cardiothoracic Surgery and Cardiology Unit will be transferred from Tan
Tock Seng Hospital to the new Singapore General Hospital.  
  
(3) An Obstetric and Gynaecology Unit and a Neonatal Unit will be located in
the new Singapore General Hospital.  
  
(4) A Paediatric Surgery Unit, for all children under the age of 12 who
require surgery.  
  
(5) A Department which will provide facilities for medical investigations
using radioisotopes.  
  
(6) A Clinical Measurement and Health Evaluation Unit to evaluate the function
of the heart, lungs, brains, using an electrocardiography (ECG) machine and
treadmill stress-testing machine, respiratory functions, electro-
encephalography (EEG) and electronyography (EMG). The Unit will also have a
multi-phasic health testing laboratory.  
  
(7) An Experimental Surgery Department which will provide facilities for
doctors to undertake experimental surgery on animals.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, would the Minister be kind enough to inform this
House what the Government expenditure would amount to in installing each bed
and maintaining it for a year?  
  
**Dr Toh Chin Chye:** Does that question refer to the new Singapore General
Hospital or the existing General Hospital?  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** The new Singapore General Hospital. Sir,  
  
**Dr Toh Chin Chye:** Sir, I do not think it is possible at this juncture to
calculate what it is going to cost us to maintain a bed a day in the new
Singapore General Hospital until the building is completed and taken over. As
of this moment, for the whole Singapore General Hospital it works out to about
$17,000 per bed per year.  
  
**Mr Ho See Beng (Bras Basah):** Sir, will there be a consequent increase in
medical charges?  
  
**Dr Toh Chin Chye:** Mr Speaker, Sir, the capital expenditure for the new
Singapore General Hospital is estimated at $200 million, and if that capital
sum were to be amortised I believe the interest will be considerable. I am
afraid I cannot give a clear-cut answer to the question asked by the Member
for Bras Basah. If there are any changes at all, I think due consideration
will be given to the changes in charges for the health services as a whole.  
  
**Mr Ho See Beng:** Sir, what would be the Minister's comment if one says that
our medical services in regard to charges could be still further subsidised?  
  
**Dr Toh Chin Chye:** Sir, may I ask, who is going to subsidise? Will the
Member for Bras Basah pay more tax? If so, then I think the subsidy will come
from taxes.

**PAN ISLAND EXPRESSWAY**

**(Completion date)**

  
  
6\. **Mr Ng Kah Ting** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications when the Pan Island Expressway which is being built in parts
and stages will be completed and at what cost.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Punggol is correct when he
says that the Pan Island Expressway is being built in parts and stages. I can
give him the progress to date, and they are as follows:-  
  
The section from Jalan Eunos to Whitley Road, which includes Paya Lebar Way
and Jalan Toa Payoh, has been completed However, a flyover at Woodsville has
yet to be constructed, but financial provision for this has been included in
the development programme for 1977.  
  
The section from Whitley Road to Adam Road is expected to be completed around
the end of 1977.  
  
The section from Adam Road to Jalan Anak Bukit was recently opened to traffic.  
  
Construction work is in progress on parts of the eastward extension of the
Expressway from Jalan Eunos to the East Coast Parkway in Changi. It is
expected that this section of the Expressway will be completed by 1 980.  
  
The last section of the Expressway, which is its westward extension from Jalan
Anak Bukit to Jalan Boon Lay in Jurong, is in the final stages of design and
the first contracts on this section will be awarded in 1977\. It is also hoped
that this section will be completed by 1980\.  
  
The middle section of the Pan Island Expressway from Jalan Eunos to Jalan Anak
Bukit will therefore be completed by the end of 1977. But the whole length of
the Expressway from Changi to Jurong will only be completed by 1980.  
  
The cost of civil works of the completed sections of the Expressway to date
amounts to $33 million. The remaining sections will cost a further $117
million to construct. The total cost of civil works for the whole length of
the Pan Island Expressway, therefore. amounts to $150 million.

**LORONG BUANG KOK AND LORONG CHENG LIM**

**(Road construction)**

  
  
7\. **Mr Ng Kah Ting** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications whether all roads and drains in the farming areas in Lorong
Buang Kok and Lorong Cheng Lim will be made up to kampong road standard and
lined with layer drainage channels.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** If the Member for Punggol will put up proposals for
improvement and upgrading of roads and drains in the farming areas around
Lorong Buang Kok and Lorong Cheng Lim to the Urban and Rural Services
Committee, his request will be favourably considered.

**SAND AND GRANITE QUARRIES REGULATIONS, 1971**

**(Deletion of provisions)**

  
  
8\. **Mr Cheong Yuen Chee** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications why Regulations 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Sand and
Granite Quarries Regulations. 1971, were deleted when the 1971 Regulations
were replaced by the Sand and Granite Quarries Regulations. 1974.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Sir, these Regulations were deleted because, in drafting
the 1974 Regulations, the Attorney-General had advised that, it would be
undesirable to duplicate provisions which already existed in other
legislation. The deleted Regulations are covered by the Factories Act. 1973.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, does the Minister realise that dust pollution is a
grave problem especially in sand and granite quarries? To workers and
residents in the neighbourhood, effective control of dust pollution is
essential. The absence of Regulations 11 and 12 would most certainly cause
this problem and, irrespective of them being in the Factories Act, additional
precaution should be taken for sand and granite quarries.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Mr Speaker, Sir, the nuisance arising from quarry dust is
being looked after. I think the Attorney-General is the correct person to give
advice on legal proceedings. In his opinion nuisance of this nature has
already been looked after in the Factories Act, 1973. There is no need to
duplicate it in the Sand and Granite Quarries Regulations. 1974.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, does the Minister realise that the Factories Act
does not provide for pre-employment medical examination? Regulation 13 says
that no person suffering from a pulmonary disease is to be recruited, and
silicosis is a pulmonary disease. Could the Minister show how it would be
ensured, in the absence of this Regulation, that no person suffering from a
pulmonary disease is recruited into the sand and granite quarries industry?  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Sir, I do not think the Member is quite correct, because
under Regulation 32 of the Sand and Granite Quarries Regulations. 1974,
medical examination is provided for. It says here:  
  
"Every licensee shall provide -  
  
(a) every person who is employed in a granite quarry with a chest X-ray
examination at least once a year; and  
  
(b) every person who is employed in a sand quarry with a chest X-ray
examination at least once in two years.'  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Mr Speaker, Sir, I am talking about pre-employment
examination. That is not provided for.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Mr Speaker, Sir, we are going into details. But if the
Member can give me the kind of information that he wants. I will supply him
later. It is a bit too much for me to try to remember in detail every
regulation that has been enacted in my Ministry.

**REFUSE INCINERATOR AT TOH TUCK ROAD**

  
  
9\. **Mr Ng Kah Ting** asked the Minister for Law and the Environment when the
incinerator at Toh Tuck Road will be completed and at what cost; whether
pollution of the atmosphere by the incinerator which will give rise to concern
is being looked into; what benefits this incinerator will bring; and, with its
completion, whether refuse dumping at the Tampines dumping ground will cease
altogether to ensure the return of marine life to Serangoon River,  
  
**The Minister of State, Prime Minister's Office (Haji Ya'acob Bin Mohamed)
(for the Minister for Law and the Environment)**(_In Malay_): Mr Speaker, Sir,
the incinerator at Toh Tuck Road is expected to be completed by early 1979 and
costs about $85 million. A loan of US$25 million has been obtained from the
World Bank to meet part of the cost. Construction .is in progress. Three main
contracts for the civil works and the mechanical and electrical equipment have
been awarded.  
  
Adequate safeguards against noise and air pollution will be provided. The
incinerator plant will have electrostatic dust filters capable of removing
about 99% of air pollutants and a 150 metre high chimney. These anti-pollution
measures estimated to cost about $6 million will ensure that the smoke from
the plant will comply fully with the Clean Air Act.  
  
To conserve energy, the waste heat from the plant will be used to generate 11
MW of electricity. Part of this electricity will be used by the plant itself
and the surplus power sold to the Public Utilities Board. The plant will also
have facilities to recover ferrous metal from the refuse.  
  
Swamp land for dumping of refuse is scarce; the incinerator will reduce the
volume of refuse it burns by 90% and is the best way of disposing the growing
volume of refuse. At present about 2.000 tonnes of refuse is disposed of at
our dumping grounds. This quantity is expected to increase to 2,300 tonnes a
day in 1979 when the incineration plant is commissioned. The plant will be
able to burn 1,200 tonnes of refuse a day, and the rest will continue to be
disposed of at the two existing dumping grounds at Tampines and Lim Chu Kang.  
  
The dumping ground at Tampines is provided with proper earth bunds to prevent
solid waste from going into the Serangoon River. The refuse is covered each
day with earth to minimise pollution. As such the dumping ground should not
have too serious an effect on the marine life in the river.

**HAWKER SITE AT SILAT SQUARE**

  
  
10\. **Mr P. Govindaswamy** asked the Minister for Law and the Environment
whether it is proposed to provide a hawker site in the Silat Square area in
place of the previous hawker site which had been converted into a car park.  
  
**The Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for the Environment (Mr Chor
Yeok Eng) (for the Minister for Law and the Environment)**(_In Mandarin_): Mr
Speaker, Sir, as the Member for Anson is doubtless aware. Kampong Silat
Housing Estate has only 446 housing units. There are two Housing and
Development Board markets, namely. Kim Tian Road Market with 164 stalls and
Jalan Bukit Merah Market with 138 stalls and a private market with 71 stalls
at Nelson Road. These three markets are only a quarter of a mile away from the
housing estate. In addition, a new market-cum-food centre with 135 stalls has
been completed recently by the HDB at Telok Blangah Rise about half a mile
away from the housing estate.  
  
In view of all these facilities and the small population in the estate, an
additional site for hawkers is not required. The 21 hawkers at Silat Square
together with 14 other hawkers in the vicinity have been given stalls in the
Telok Blangah Rise Market on 1st May, 1976, in accordance with the policy to
resite hawkers in open spaces within markets and food centres.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Mr Speaker, Sir.can the Parliamentary Secretary please
explain further? He has said that there are markets and hawker stalls all over
Singapore. But what I am asking is that the people in the Silat Square area
should have a hawker centre. I want to know whether that can be done. The
Parliamentary Secretary says that there are hawker centres everywhere. Yes,
there are hawker centres everywhere in Singapore. But I want a hawker centre
in the Silat Square area.  
  
**Mr Chor Yeok Eng**(_In Mandarin_): Sir, if the Member wants to know whether
there will be a hawker centre there, my answer is no, because there are
already three markets in that estate. There are more than enough stalls in the
three markets. Several hawkers have already moved into the market at the Telok
Blangah estate. There is no need for another hawker centre.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, can the Parliamentary Secretary tell me what are
the criteria for the building of hawker centres?  
  
**Mr Chor Yeok Eng**(_In Mandarin_): Sir, my answer is that it depends on the
population and the development needs of the area concerned. I have just said
that 21 hawkers from the Silat estate have already been allotted new stalls in
the Telok Blangah market. Where is the need to build another market,
considering that there are three markets and hundreds of stalls to serve the
small estate at Silat Square area? To build another market there will be a
waste of public funds.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, my question is this. I want the people in the
Silat Square area to have the benefit of a market where they could get things
easily. There may be a market in the Telok Blangah estate. But how far is
Silat Road from the Telok Blangah estate? The people, want to get their
foodstuffs or any other things easily. Are there any supermarkets to be built
in that area?  
  
**Mr Chor Yeok Eng**(_In Mandarin_): Sir, if we accede to the request of the
Member for Anson and build a supermarket outside the house of every resident,
it would be ridiculous. Nobody can do that. Since there are three markets in
that vicinity, what more does the Member want?  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, I am not talking about that. There was previously
a hawker site in that area. But it has been converted into a car park. Why?
That is what I want to know.  
  
**Mr Chor Yeok Eng**(_In Mandarin_): Sir, it is because we feel that the site
is not suitable for a market. We have built several markets in that vicinity.
We have also moved the hawkers into the new market. The site on which the
stalls had been demolished can be put to better use.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, may I know what is the population in Silat Square
area? The people there are not served by market stalls. I want to know what is
the population in that area.  
  
**Mr Speaker:** Mr P. Govindaswamy. I think the answer was no, just now. I do
not think there is any use in persisting on this point.

**HYDROPONICS**

**(Results of experiments)**

  
  
11\. **Mr Cheong Yuen Chee** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications when the public will be told of the results of the experiments
that have been conducted for so many years on hydroponics so that this method
of cultivation can be commercialised.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Mr Speaker, Sir, the results of the experiments conducted
by the Primary Production Department on hydroponics have been widely
publicised over the last two years by the press, Radio and Television
Singapore and in publications such as the Primary Production Bulletin and the
Singapore Journal of Primary Industries. An Agriculture Handbook which is
being sold to members of the public at $2.50 per copy gives a full account on
the setting up of a commercial hydroponic farm.  
  
The Primary Production Department would provide technical advice and help to
those who are interested to invest in the hydroponic culture of vegetables.  
  
Commercial production of vegetables by the hydroponic method of cultivation
has already begun. The one-acre farm established by the Ministry of Defence
has been operating successfully over the last two years. Another two-acre
commercial unit will soon commence production. This is run by the Primary
Industries Enterprise Co, and it will be sited in Punggol.  
  
The Government has also made available 40 acres of land at Sernbawang to be
leased to interested persons for commercial hydroponics farming. To-date,
eight acres of land have been leased out and production will begin shortly.
Those who are interested may apply to the Primary Production Department.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Mr Speaker, Sir, can the Minister tell us how profitable
this method of cultivation is when compared with the normal method?  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Some of them have just begun production. I have no figures
of the one run by the Ministry of Defence. Obviously the business-minded
people must have made their calculations and estimated it to be profitable.
Otherwise we would not have been able to lease out eight acres of land for
hydroponics farming.

**HOUSING BOARD SHOPS AND FLATS**

**(Number completed)**

  
  
12\. **Mr Hwang Soo Jin** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications if he will ascertain from the Housing and Development Board (a)
how many units of shops and flats have been completed by the Board in 1976 up
to the latest convenient date, and how many more units will be completed by
the end of the year; (b) how many, shops and flats have been completed by the
Board as at the latest convenient date; and (c) how many applicants for
purchase and rental of flats are on the waiting-list.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Mr Speaker, Sir, the total number of units of shops and
flats completed by the Board up to the third quarter of 1976 is 19,732 units
comprising 19,337 fIats and 395 shops. A total of 10,292 units, made up of
10.012 fiats and 280 shops will be completed in the last quarter of 1976.  
  
An accumulative total of 254.220 units comprising 246.924 fIats and 7,296
shops have been completed by the Board up to the third quarter of 1976. Of
this, 17.693 fIats and 240 shops were completed as agency projects, i.e.,
units built by the Board for the Jurong Town Corporation, the Port of
Singapore Authority and other authorities.  
  
The number of applicants on the waiting list for the purchase and rental of
flats as at 30th September, 1976 is 66.58 1 and 15,097 applicants
respectively.

**HOUSING BOARD MAINTENANCE SERVICE**

**(Improvement of)**

  
  
13\. **Mr Ng Yeow Chong** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications if he will ascertain from the Housing and Development Board
whether it will seek ways and means to improve its maintenance service so that
complaints of defects and normal wear and tear of its flats can be attended to
more expeditiously.  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Mr Speaker, Sir, over the years, the Housing and
Development Board has continuously introduced new measures to improve its
maintenance service and to ensure that repairs are carried out promptly.
Previously only one term contractor was appointed to undertake specific
categories of repairs for all properties in HDB estates. Now the HDB estates
are grouped into three main zones, each zone with one term contractor to
perform specific repairs. Each term contractor will therefore work on a
smaller area and is thus able to render faster repairs. When one term
contractor is unable to fulfill his assignment fast enough, arrangement is
made for a contractor from another zone to provide the necessary backup
service to complete the works expeditiously.  
  
Recently, the Board has set up a Special Action Unit to detect and monitor any
shortcomings of its services to the residents so that instant corrective
measures can be taken. There is also an Essential Maintenance Service Unit
which provides round-the-clock services for breakdowns in essential services
like lift break-down, sanitary chokes and electrical faults.  
  
There are certain types of repairs which necessarily take a longer time to
complete, e.g., defective doors and windows in the older buildings have to be
individually measured and hand-made as the standard-sized mass-produced
windows and doors cannot be used. In a number of instances repairs were
delayed because no one was in the flat when the workmen called.

**FLOODS**

**(Steps to prevent recurrence)**

  
  
14\. **Mr Ivan Baptist** asked the Minister for Home Affairs and Education
what steps are being taken to prevent the recurrence of the grave
inconvenience caused to the public by the chaotic traffic condition due to the
recent severe floods.  
  
**The Minister for Home Affairs and Education (Mr Chua Sian Chin):** Mr
Speaker, Sir, in consultation with other relevant Departments, the Police has
identified areas prone to floods and traffic congestion following heavy
rainfall. It has drawn up some diversion routes to by-pass these areas.
Motorists have also been advised what they should do in case of heavy and
incessant rain leading to extensive flooding. The information has already been
given wide publicity in the press and over television and radio. Briefly,
motorists are urged not to use their vehicles when there is extensive
flooding. If they have to use their vehicles they are advised to plan their
routes in advance and listen to radio reports on the flood and traffic
situation so as to avoid the flooded areas. They are asked to drive carefully
and observe diversion signs.  
  
During incessant and heavy rain the Police will monitor the flood and traffic
situation and give frequent situation reports over Radio Singapore. Similar
announcements will also be made by the Rediffusion.  
  
Police personnel in the Divisions and the Traffic Police have been briefed on
the diversion routes drawn up for them to direct traffic during severe
flooding of the roads. Directional signs have been made and they will be
placed at strategic junctions to guide the motorists.  
  
As before. Police Reserve Units have been assigned to respond to calls for
rescue operations. They will be deployed to remove fallen trees and other road
obstructions and assist commuters and motorists. Now, more Police Reserve
Units will be deployed for this purpose.  
  
The Police has also been given authority by the Road Transport Action
Committee to lift the Area Licensing Scheme (ALS) temporarily if and when
flood conditions warrant it. The temporary lifting of the ALS will also be
announced over the radio and Rediffusion.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, can the Minister tell us why the Traffic Police did
not react fast enough to lessen hardship for' the people?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, I do not know whether the Member for Potong Pasir
is referring to the 1st November floods. If it is so, the Police acted as fast
as they could. The Member would remember that it was a flash flood. It came
very suddenly.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, can the Minister tell us whether the Traffic Police,
together with the relevant departments, have taken any corrective action to
ensure that these flood-prone areas are relieved, so that there will not be
any need for avoidance of these areas during floods by the people but rather
having the situation corrected?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, I suppose the Member for Potong Pasir meant that
there should be no floods. I believe that is a question which I think my
colleague. the Minister for Law and the Environment, would be in a better
position to answer,  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, can the Hon. Minister tell us whether the Traffic
Police Department has liaised with the Ministry of National Development and
Communications, to ensure that the flood-prone areas could be relieved? In
other words, to carry out some flood relief projects and so on.  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, the answer to that question is already contained
in my original answer where I stated that the measures planned were as a
result of consultation between the Traffic Police and other relevant
departments. And one of the relevant departments is the Ministry of the
Environment which is in charge of drainage.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, has the Ministry of National Development been
consulted to provide flood relief?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, the answer is yes.

**TAN WAH PIOW**

**(Entry into Britain)**

  
  
15\. **Mr P. Selvadurai** asked the Minister for Home Affairs and Education if
he will enlighten this House as to how Mr Tan Wah Piow, who had absconded
before reporting for National Service, managed to enter Britain; whether Mr
Tan had valid travel documents. and if so, how were they acquired, if not, how
was he allowed entry into Britain in June. 1976; and what action, if any, the
Government intends to take against Mr Tan.  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Mr Speaker, Sir, soon after Tan Wah Piow absconded from
National Service in October 1975, our Immigration Department established from
their records that his Singapore (International) passport had expired. His
passport was issued on 4th March, 1969. Its validity was extended on 13th
March, 1974 to 18th October, 1974 with a clearly impressed endorsement that no
further extension could be made except by the office of issue which is the
Immigration Department. This was because Tan Wah Piow was in the call-up age
and had to produce to the Immigration Department an Exit Permit from the
Ministry of Defence before any further extension could be considered. No
application was received by the Immigration Department for an extension beyond
18th October. 1974.  
  
On 21st October, 1976, the press reported Tan Wah Piow's appearance in London.
It stated that Tan Wah Piow had entered the U.K, on a Singapore passport.
Since Tan Wah Piow's passport had expired, it was evident that he must have
tampered with his expired passport. We requested and obtained from the British
authorities photostat copies of Tan Wah Piow's passport.  
  
The British authorities have now given us a photostat copy showing an
endorsement on the last page of Tan Wah Piow's passport dated 24th October,
1974, purporting to extend the validity of his passport to 4th March, 1979.
The photostat showed it to be forged. Evidence of the forgery include the
following:  
  
(1) the signature appearing on that endorsement is not that of any of the two
officers who were authorised to sign such endorsements in October 1 974;  
  
(2) contrary to the established practice of the Immigration Department, the
endorsement did not indicate that a fee for the endorsement was paid; and  
  
(3) contrary to the established practice of the Immigration Department the
endorsement did not show the number of the required Exit Permit from the
Ministry of Defence.  
  
How Tan Wah Piow was allowed to enter Britain, I do not know. Photostat copies
of Tan Wah Piow's passport showed that he did not go directly from Singapore
to the U.K. He could not have got through Singapore airport or any other
checkpoint undetected with his expired passport. According to the press. Tan
Wah Piow claimed he slipped into Malaysia. We do not have any other evidence
of this for his passport was not endorsed either in Kuala Lumpur or Penang
airport or any other exit checkpoint in Malaysia. The endorsement of the
passport showed that he arrived in Thailand on 12th June, 1976, and stayed
there until 23rd June. 1976, when he flew off from Bangkok. He then proceeded
to Amsterdam before arriving at London on 30th June. 1976\.  
  
3.30 p.m.  
  
It was reported that he entered U.K, and was given a permit to stay for six
months. It is well known that those who wan~ to visit the U.K, for six months
have to apply to a British embassy or high commission for an entry
certificate. The grant of an entry certificate is not automatic, and it is
unlikely that a forged passport extension would go unnoticed.  
  
As to what action the Government intends to take. the question is whether we
should have him extradited and on what grounds. Let me recount Tan Wah Piow's
position. He was convicted for rioting and sentenced to 12 months'
imprisonment. He has served his term. Immediately after his release, he was
granted, at his request, three days' compassionate leave before reporting for
National Service. He absconded.  
  
According to the law, absconding from National Service is not an extraditable
offence.  
  
But we have now evidence from a photostat given by the British authorities
that he has committed forgery with regard to his passport. Forgery is an
extraditable offence.  
  
However, we should await the decision of the British authorities as to whether
they will be prosecuting Tan Wah Piow since he has used an expired passport
with a forged extension to enter the U.K. I am advised this is a criminal
offence under British law. If the British authorities decide to overlook this
offence and we decide to ask for Tan Wah Piow's extradition, we shall request
British cooperation to give us evidence as to when and how Tan Wah Piow
entered the U.K, and that he used his expired passport with a forged
extension.  
  
Members may recall that when Tan Wah Piow failed to report for National
Service, the Police, after consulting the Ministry of Defence, offered a
reward of $50 for information leading to his arrest. If anything, he is now
worth less.  
  
**Mr P. Selvadurai (Kuo Chuan):** The Minister's answer has interesting
implications, Sir. Can he now tell us how it was possible for Mr Tan Wah Piow
to move in and out of several countries and entered the United Kingdom,
without difficulty, on an expired passport with an obviously forged extension?
He must have had backers not only to foot the bill for his journeys but also
to get through Immigration.  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** It is reasonable to infer that Tan Wah Piow received
help to make his journey to London and to obtain an entry certificate to stay
in the U.K, for six months on a passport with a forged extension.  
  
**Mr Ng Kah Ting (Punggol):** Sir, although Tan Wah Piow is no loss to
Singapore if it is finally decided not to extradite him, will not this
encourage other youths who are liable for national service to follow his
footsteps, falsely endorsing an expired passport in order to escape national
service?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, there may be a few wayward youths who may try, but
for them to succeed in going through British immigration they must have
backers who are capable of helping them. Every year thousands of our youths
report for national service. They have a stake in the future of Singapore and
are willing to do their share to defend that stake. I believe few would think
of escaping national service, much less forging passport endorsements with
very little chance of escaping detection either on departure from Singapore or
on arrival in London, especially without an entry permit.  
  
**Mr Ng Kah Ting:** Sir, the Minister has just said that for those few wayward
youths to succeed in going through British immigration with forged passports
they must have "backers" who are capable of helping them. Would he not think
that it is more likely that the "backers" must be "under obligation", rather
than just being capable of helping them?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, perhaps the Member for Punggol may be right there.
However. I am in no position to say further to what I have already stated.  
  
**Mr J. F. Conceicao (Katong):** Sir, will not Tan Wah Piow's backers, as they
have been described by my colleague, the Member for Kuo Chuan, whoever these
shadowy individuals may be, feel encouraged to continue their disruptive
tactics if he is not extradited to face charges in Singapore?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, it is of little consequence how Tan Wah Piow's
backers feel on this matter, The question is, are they in a position to
influence others in Singapore to act like Tan Wah Piow? I would think they
would not meet with more success than they have had with Tan Wah Piow. The
political situation in Singapore does not favour the clumsy disruptive
activities of types like Tan Wah Piow.  
  
**Mr Ho See Beng:** Sir, can the Minister throw some light on this mystery?
Tan Wah Piow entered the United Kingdom through London on 30th June, 1976, and
was given six months' stay. He must have his passport with him like any other
visitor. What puzzles me is this: how could the British authorities readily
get hold of his passport to make photostat copies? Can the Minister throw some
light on this matter?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, to state the fact. The photostat copy was provided
20 days after we requested for it from the British authorities. However. I am
not in a position to say when such a photostat copy was made.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, the Minister talked about passport forgery. How
was it done? Was it by handwriting or by rubber stamping?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, by both. It has got to be chopped, and after it
has been chopped it has got to have a signature on it.  
  
**Mr P. Govindaswamy:** Sir, how was the rubber stamp chopped?  
  
**Mr Chua Sian Chin:** Sir, if only I knew how he did it.

**SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS**

**(Choice of medium of instruction)**

  
  
16\. **Mr J. F. Conceicao** asked the Minister for Home Affairs and Education
what special circumstances, if any, are taken into consideration to allow
principals flexibility in the choice of the medium of instruction for the
teaching of Science and Mathematics.  
  
**The Senior Minister of State for Education (Mr Chai Chong Yii) (for the
Minister for Home Affairs and Education):** Mr Speaker, Sir, it is the aim of
my Ministry that eventually the teaching of Science and Mathematics will be in
English in all our schools. However, since 1975 because of shortage of
suitable English speaking teachers, principals of non-English medium schools
have been given the discretion to recommend not to use English as the medium
if they are of the opinion that their pupils' learning of Science and
Mathematics is retarded by difficulties caused by bad command of English.  
  
To-date, 34 schools `have raised this matter with the Ministry and all except
one have been allowed to use language other than English as the medium.  
  
Some of the special circumstances submitted by school principals in their
recommendations are:  
  
(1) Shortage of suitable teachers.  
  
(2) Home background of pupils not conducive to the understanding of English.  
  
(3) Past performance of pupils extremely poor.  
  
**Mr Conceicao:** Sir, why was an exception made in the case of that single
school for which permission was not given for flexibility in the choice of the
medium of instruction?  
  
**Mr Chai Chong Yii:** They were unable to substantiate their recommendation
to the satisfaction of the Ministry.

**GUILLEMARD ROAD MARKET SITE**

**(Conversion into children's playground)**

  
  
17\. **Mr Ng Yeow Chong** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications if he will ask the Housing and Development Board to convert the
former site of Guillemard Road Market at Cassia Square into a children's
playground for the benefit of the children in Guillemard Estate,  
  
**Mr Lim Kim San:** Sir, the answer here is yes. The Ministry of Law has
agreed, in principle, to alienate the land to the Housing and Development
Board for conversion into a children's playground. Action will be taken when
alienation formalities are completed.

**CHANGI AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT**

**(Particulars)**

  
  
18\. **Mr P. Selvadurai** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications (a) when the airstrip at the new Changi Airport will be ready;
(b) when the Changi Airport will become operational; (c) whether operations at
Paya Lebar Airport will cease on the new Changi Airport becoming operational;
(d) if it is proposed to build a third runway at Changi Airport should' air
traffic warrant it in the 1 980s; and (e) if, in view of the already heavy
vehicular traffic on Changi Road which will be compounded by the traffic
resulting from the operation of the new Changi Airport, a new road of access
to Changi Airport together with a new road connecting Changi Airport to Paya
Lebar Airport will be built.  
  
**The Senior Minister of State for Communications (Mr Ong Teng Cheong) (for
the Minister for National Development and Communications):** Mr Speaker, Sir,
the first runway at Changi Airport, together with its landing aids, will be
completed by early 1980\.  
  
With the completion of the Phase I passenger terminal together with supporting
facilities, such as the air traffic control tower, freight terminal, parking
aprons, hangar. Changi Airport is expected to become operational by the latter
part of 1980.  
  
Though the first runway and its supporting facilities are targetted for
completion by the latter part of 1980, the second runway at Changi Airport is
scheduled for completion only in mid-1982. During the interim period from
1980-82, Paya Lebar Airport will be used to cater for the over-spill of civil
aircraft traffic which could not be handled by Changi Airport with only one
runway. A new direct express road linking Paya Lebar Airport to Changi Airport
is being built. This will provide a fast and efficient flow of passengers and
vehicles between the two Airports. After the second runway at Changi is
completed in 1982, Paya Lebar Airport will be used as a supplementary airport
to Changi. Nonscheduled and other charter flights could also be handled by
Paya Lebar Airport.  
  
The two parallel runways to be built at Changi Airport are capable of handling
up to 80 aircraft movements per hour. Presently, there are 22 aircraft
movements per hour at Paya Lebar Airport, and this is projected to reach about
48 movements per hour in 1992\. Therefore, two runways at Changi Airport would
be able to meet the needs of peak hour aircraft movements well into the next
century. There is, therefore, no plan to build a third runway at Changi
Airport in the 198Os.  
  
There will be two major expressways linking Changi Airport with the main city
areas, as well as other parts of Singapore. The East Coast Parkway will
provide a freeway link between Changi Airport and the city. Construction works
are in progress and the Parkway leading to Changi Airport is expected to be
completed by mid-1978. Changi Airport will also be linked to the other parts
of the island through a section of the Pan-Island Expressway which is expected
to be completed by early 1 980. A new link road connecting Changi Airport to
Paya Lebar Airport will also be built and this is also scheduled for
completion by early 1980. Changi Airport will, therefore, have an efficient
inland road transportation system, so that there will be no congestion on the
access roads to the new Airport.  
  
**Mr Ivan Baptist:** Sir, could the Minister enlighten us on whether the
Concorde will be allowed to commercially use the Paya Lebar and Changi
Airports?  
  
**Mr Ong Teng Cheong:** Sir,, the answer is yes.

**TRANSPORT PROBLEMS**

**(Measures to ease and Decision on MRT)**

  
  
19\. **Mr P. Selvadurai** asked the Minister for National Development and
Communications (a) what measures other than the imposition of taxes on motor
cars, petrol. diesel oil and the implementation of the Area Licensing Scheme
his Ministry will be taking to further ease our transport problems; (b)
whether any decision has been made by his Ministry on the long proposed and
long awaited Mass Transit System; and (c) if the proposed Mass Transit System
will be underground, on the ground or above ground and what parts of the
Island it will connect.  
  
**Mr Ong Teng Cheong (for the Minister for National Development and
Communications):** Mr Speaker, Sir, our transport problems are mainly due to
the limited amount of road space available and the large number of vehicles
competing for the use of the limited road space. Measures taken to reduce
these problems include:-  
  
(i) undertaking road improvements and using better traffic management
techniques to minimise bottlenecks and increase road capacity;  
  
(ii) improving public transport service and encouraging commuters to use
public mode of mass transportation since the private motor cars do not use the
road space as efficiently;  
  
(iii) giving priority to public transport and goods vehicles on our limited
road space especially in the Central Business District; and  
  
(iv) introducing higher vehicle taxes and licence fees to restrain the growth
of motor cars.  
  
These measures introduced over the past few years have enabled us to ease
traffic congestion on our roads. Latest figures show that the entry of private
cars into the Central Business District during the morning peak hours from
7.30 am, to 10.15 am. Ms been reduced by 75% compared to the level prevailing
in March last year before the introduction of the Area Licensing Scheme. Car
pools account for 49% of private cars entering the Restricted Zone as compared
with 23% in July last year. This is an encouraging trend which shows that
motorists have responded favourably to our encouragement of a more efficient
use of private cars.  
  
Although traffic outbound from the Restricted Zone in the evening has
increased by 12% over June last year, observations have shown that congestion
is localised and of short duration caused mainly by cross town traffic. The
situation will be monitored and measures will be taken to improve the traffic
flow as and when necessary. In the meantime our efforts will be directed
towards further improvement of the public transport services.  
  
On the question of the Mass Transit System, a draft final Report of Phase II
of the Mass Transit Study was submitted by the Consultants in March this year.
The World Bank, which is the executive agency for UNDP, is currently reviewing
the Report. We expect the Bank to complete its appraisal soon and the Phase II
Report finalised shortly.  
  
Meanwhile plans for the coordination and integration of the MRT into a
comprehensive land use scheme in keeping with the overall island-wide
development Concept Plan are being examined. Since implementation of the MRT
will affect many other sectors besides transport, careful consideration has to
be given to not only' its costs but its likely influence and impact on
development planning, locations of employment and residential centres,
commuting habits, and the economy in general. The existence or absence of the
MRT will determine to a large extent the nature of the urban structure
including the Central Area in the nineties and beyond. It is for this reason
that a land use and transportation plan is being drawn up.  
  
The MRT cannot be considered solely as a transportation project. A decision on
the MAT can only be made after all factors have been carefully weighed.  
  
Based on the Phase II MAT study, a total of 44.6 km is envisaged for the Full
System, of which 17.6 km will be underground and the remaining 27 km will be
either at grade, depressed or elevated. There will be 31 stations with 1 5
built underground or depressed and 16 at grade or elevated.  
  
Since underground lines and stations are much more expensive than surface
structures, a deliberate attempt is made to reduce costs by having the trains
operated at or above grounâ¡l level wherever engineering construction permits
and wherever it is environmentally acceptable. Owing to the built-up nature of
the City Centre, all the tracks and stations will have to be underground in
the Central Area.  
  
The Full System, which assumes an inverted h-shape, will connect the Central
Area with Queenstown, Clementi New Town. Jurong Town in the west. Geylang,
Bedok New Town in the east and Toa Payoh, Ang Mo Kio New Town in the north.
Stations at the extremities would serve other population centres beyond the
line through the use of feeder bus services. An example is that Bedok Station
will also serve residents in Tampines New Town. About 50% of both population
and employment are expected to be located within 1 km on either side of the
MAT line.

**FLOODS AND DRAINAGE PROBLEMS**

**(Statement by the Minister for Law and the Environment)**

  
  
3.55 p.m.  
  
**Mr E. W. Barker:** In the last decade Singapore has seen a boom in the
building construction industry. Many new roads and highways have also been
constructed. Hills have been levelled and swamps and low-lying areas, which
served as flood basins, have been filled in. As a result, rain water no longer
seeps into the ground as much as before, but runs off rapidly and sometimes
causes floods. When a heavy rainfall coincides with a high tide, especially a
high spring tide, floods occur in some areas and sometimes even in areas which
were never flooded before.  
  
The construction of the canal near the Turf Club to divert flood waters from
Bukit Timah to Ulu Pandan has alleviated but not eradicated flooding along
that major trunk road. The construction of another canal to divert flood
waters in the Bukit Timah canal from Whitley Road to Sungei Whampoa is
therefore being reconsidered.  
  
A second canal will also be constructed along Orchard Road to alleviate
flooding along that road. The canal will be covered over and used as a
pedestrian mall.  
  
Last year Government approved a five-year Drainage Development Programme
costing about $148 million. Under this plan, drainage work has already started
on the widening and concrete lining of drains and canals in the Kallang, Ulu
Pandan. Pang Sua, Bedok and Geylang Serai areas.  
  
Existing drains and canals as well as those under construction will be
sufficiently large to cope with average rainfall. It will not be economical
both from the project cost and land use aspects to build extra large canals
for exceptional storms that may occur infrequently.  
  
Despite all that is being done to alleviate flooding, we cannot eradicate
floods completely. More rain is expected in the next month or so, and if the
rain is heavy and coincides with a high tide, flooding will occur. But our
floods do not last long and will not reach the proportions of a disaster.

**FINANCIAL PROCEDURE (AMENDMENT) BILL**

**First Reading**

  
  
3.58 p.m.  
  
**The Minister for Finance (Mr Hon Sui Sen):** Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to
introduce a Bill intituled "An Act to amend the Financial Procedure Act
(Chapter 68 of the Revised Edition)".  
  
Bill read the First time.

**Second Reading**

  
  
**Mr Speaker:** Second Reading, what day?  
  
**Mr Hon Sui Sen:** Now, Sir.  
  
Certificate of Urgency signed by the President in respect of the Bill, laid
upon the Table by the Minister.  
  
Typed copies of the Bill distributed to Members.  
  
**Mr Hon Sui Sen:** Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read
a Second time."  
  
Section 17 of the Financial Procedure Act (Chapter 68 of the Revised Edition)
provides, inter alia, for an Establishment List to be presented to Parliament
at its annual Budget session. The Establishment List, which forms part of the
Estimates of Expenditure, shows, in respect of each Head of Expenditure, the
authorised number and grades of posts as well as their salary codes and serves
as the control document for the Government's establishment.  
  
The format of the Establishment List was designed for a system in which
officers filled posts in accordance with their grades or were paid allowances
for the additional responsibility of acting in posts higher than their own
grades. However, a decision has been made recently to abolish acting
allowances and to introduce a system of responsibility allowances and merit
promotions, whereby promotions will now be decided on the basis of the merit
of individual candidates and will no longer depend on the number of vacancies
in the various grades of appointment. The Establishment List in future should
no longer show grades of appointments under Heads of Expenditure. It is
intended instead that the authorised manpower under each Head of Expenditure
be arranged according to Personnel Groups. Each Personnel Group will comprise
a single recruitment grade and a number of promotional grades. The
Establishment List will show the number of posts approved for each Personnel
Group.  
  
To enable the new format to he adopted for the FY 77 Establishment List,
section 1 7 of the Financial Procedure Act will have to be amended. The
substantial amendment is in respect of subsection (3) of section 1 7 which
stipulates that the Establishment List shall show the public offices under
each Head of Expenditure. This subsection will be amended to provide that the
Establishment List should show under each Head of Expenditure the political
appointments and the number and categories of personnel whose salaries are to
be met from the allocations in the Budget. The existing requirement that all
public offices or posts be identified in full in the Establishment List will
be deleted.  
  
The opportunity is being taken to amend also the other subsections of section
1 7. The present subsection 17(2) in effect specifies that there shall be two
types of subheads in the Main Estimates, namely, subheads showing expenditure
on the manpower requirements in the establishment in that Head of Expenditure
and other operating expenditure. It is proposed to delete this subsection to
provide greater flexibility in deciding upon the structure of individual
subheads in the Main Estimates. Under the programme budget system, which my
Ministry proposes to introduce in FY 78, each subhead will show the total
expenditure required to carry out a particular activity and the present
categorisation of expenditure estimates into EOM and OOE subheads will be
dropped. The other amendments are to the wording and the numbering of the
other subsections of section 1 7 and do not affect their substance.  
  
The amendments are required by law to be enacted and brought into force before
the FY 77 Estimates of Expenditure are presented to this House next year. The
administrative requirements in the preparation of the FY 77 Budget, however,
limit further the time available. Expenditure proposals, including the
extensive changes to the manpower component of the Budget document, have to be
submitted, scrutinised and discussed, before the final drafts are submitted to
the Printers for first proofs. If the whole budgetary process is not to be
seriously disrupted, therefore, the amendments should be enacted and brought
into force as early as possible. There may not be enough business or enough
time to make it possible for another sitting to be held well before the FY
estimates are presented next year. It is accordingly necessary to take the
Bill through all stages on a Certificate of Urgency.  
  
Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move.  
  
Question proposed.  
  
4.04 p.m.  
  
**Mr Hwang Soo Jin (Jalan Kayu):** Mr Speaker, Sir, in my capacity as Chairman
of the Estimates Committee. I must express my regret that the Minister for
Finance seems to be trying to ram this Amendment Bill through the House
without prior consultation or extending a courtesy to the Estimates Committee.
I would rather prefer that sufficient time be extended to the Estimates
Committee and that particulars of any change be submitted to that Committee.
On that courtesy Members of the Estimates Committee would be able to air their
views, and indeed, this was the practice before. I suppose there must be a
good reason why this has not been done this time. I do hope that the Hon.
Minister would bear my suggestion in mind.  
  
**Mr Hon Sui Sen:** Mr Speaker, Sir, I take the Member's point and apologise
to him and to the Estimates Committee. These amendments are, however, mainly
technical, and in the ordinary way I would not take the Bill through all the
stages. But in this particular case I do not think they are matters of policy.
They are just technical amendments to be made to the Budget documents. I will,
however, consult the Estimates Committee on the nature of the format and so on
before these are finalised.  
  
Question put, and agreed to,  
  
Bill accordingly read a Second time and committed to a Committee of the whole
House.  
  
The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill.-[Mr Hon
Sui Sen].  
  
Bill considered in Committee; reported without amendment; read a Third time
and passed.

**INFECTIOUS DISEASES BILL**

  
  
Order for Second Reading read.  
  
4.09 p.m.  
  
**The Minister for Health (Dr Toh Chin Chye):** Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to
move, "That the Bill be now read a Second time."  
  
The control and prevention of infectious diseases into Singapore have been
regulated by the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Act of 1915, the
Leprosy Act of 1949 and the Diphtheria Immunization Act of 1962\. The purpose
of this Bill is to bring the provisions of the old Acts under one cover and at
the same time to provide more effective measures against the spread of
infectious diseases. The need for this Bill is substantiated by the outbreak
of two epidemics in 1975 - a malaria epidemic and a typhoid epidemic.
Investigations showed that the outbreak of malaria in the Whampoa area was due
to a single patient who had been infected by the disease when he was outside
Singapore.  
  
As facilities for travel become easier and immigration controls are more
relaxed, it becomes essential for Singapore to be vigilant against the
importation and spread of infectious diseases in the Republic. At present,
diseases which must be notified by medical practitioners include cholera and
typhoid, plague, smallpox, yellow fever, chicken pox, diphtheria, leprosy,
malaria, poliomyelitis, tuberculosis and typhus. Under the provisions of this
Bill, the schedule of notifiable diseases has been widened to include
infectious hepatitis, encephalitis and venereal diseases, Although private
doctors are required to notify cases of venereal diseases, they do not have to
reveal the names and particulars of their patients. The reason for such a step
is to encourage infected persons to seek treatment by their own doctors as
early as possible. In this way, it is hoped that the spread of sexually
transmitted diseases can be voluntarily kept under control without patients
being fearful that they will be publicly embarrassed.  
  
The control of infectious diseases within Singapore will be administered by
the Director of Medical Services, whilst the prevention and introduction of
such diseases, in particular cholera, typhoid, malaria and dengue haemorrhagic
fever, into Singapore will be administered by the Commissioner of Public
Health in the Ministry of the Environment.  
  
Clause 20 of the Bill empowers the Director of Medical Services to prohibit
any person from carrying on any occupation, trade or business if in doing so
he will cause the spread of the disease.  
  
Members of the House are aware of the "Combat Infectious Diseases Campaign"
carried out in September this year, during which the public attention was
focussed on tuberculosis, food-borne diseases, malaria, dengue haemorrhagic
fever, leprosy and venereal diseases. The campaign has been successful in
educating the public into the causes and effects posed by these diseases.  
  
Apart from legislative measures, I believe that an educated and well-informed
public is a more important factor in controlling the outbreak of epidemics and
assure a high standard of health in Singapore.  
  
Question proposed.  
  
**Mr Conceicao:** Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to speak in support of the Bill. To
describe the introduction of this Infectious Diseases Bill as timely might
well be the understatement of the year. This piece of legislation is really
long overdue as the existing Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Act which
this Bill seeks largely to replace was first introduced in 1915\. Many of the
references in the original Act are therefore completely out of date, even to
the extent of retaining quaint colonial overtones.  
  
For example, in the section in the old Act devoted to the interpretation of
terms, much space is taken by reference to animals, carcass, cattle, dairy,
fodder, litter, and so on.  
  
**Dr Toh Chin Chye:** Corpse!  
  
**Mr Conceicao:** Yes. Again, oddly, an immigrant in the old Act is
characterised as  
  
'(a) any person not being a first or second class passenger arriving in the
waters of Singapore in a ship with the intention of landing in Singapore;  
  
(b) any person arriving at any local area n Singapore as a third class
passenger in a train;'  
  
Apparently at that time they did not believe that first and second class
passengers could transmit infectious diseases. Or again,  
  
'(c) any person arriving at any local area .n Singapore on foot in a bullock-
cart, hire gharri ...'  
  
and so on. For the benefit of the younger members of this House whose
experience may not have included acquaintance with the term "gharri", it means
horse cart. This Bill, therefore, seeks to replace an old outmoded colonial
piece of legislation with something more related to our present circumstances.  
  
Although some of the classic diseases which the old piece of legislation was
particularly exercised over. such as small-pox and plague, have been virtually
eliminated we must always keep our defences up against the risk of
introduction of infectious diseases from outside Singapore. Though we do not
have immigrants arriving on foot, in bullock-carts or in gharries (we have
emigrants going out with forged passports!), modern modes of transport and the
large influx and movement of tourists and those on business have made
Singapore one of the busiest crossroads of international travel in the world.
There always remains the risk of diseases being introduced without prior
warning.  
  
Modern international traffic is so intensive that it is not possible to set up
any kind of cordon sanitaire of the good old days. Quarantine laws have
therefore to be updated in keeping with contemporary conditions. For, not only
do we have the better known infectious diseases to guard against, but there
are also new exotic but nonetheless very dangerous viral afflictions,
outbreaks of which have been noted in one or two countries, both developed and
under developed. Powers to tackle such diseases, even if these ailments are
not presently subject to international health regulations, have been
incorporated in this Bill.  
  
We should remember. Mr Speaker, Sir, that Singapore is one of the healthiest
countries in the world where environmental conditions are concerned and we
should continue to keep it that way. Our people are provided with safe
drinking water, modern sanitation and a clean environment. The inculcation of
better standards of personal hygiene and public health has been part of the
continuing public education programmes of the relevant Government departments,
programmes that have been carried out at community centres and through mass
campaigns and in other ways. Where infectious diseases have occurred
sporadically, our constant vigilance and effective surveillance have paid
dividends in early detection and immediate action and treatment to ensure that
the diseases are brought under control quickly.  
  
It has often enough been stated that our best assets and prime resources are
people. It is important that every effort be made to safeguard their health
and protect them from avoidable infection: this especially so in view of the
fact of the close relationship between our relatively high standard of living
and our achievement in the field of public health. I am sure Hon. Members who
have recently so enthusiastically played their part in the "Combat Infectious
Diseases Campaign" will support fully this move to update the laws relating to
the control of infectious diseases.  
  
However, as the Minister has pointed out, it is not enough merely to pass laws
and implement them at the official level. For the effect of laws to be
successful, it is necessary to have the full cooperation of the population.
Although the ensurance of clean water supply and modern sanitation to
households have eliminated many of the common infectious diseases such as
cholera, some enteric diseases are still prevalent. Therefore, standards of
personal hygiene have yet to be raised higher and should there be any
unfortunate infection occurring, prompt reporting from the public and medical
practitioners, and general public alertness are equally essential for halting
the spread of infectious diseases, for notification is one of the keystones of
our programme of protection of our people against infectious diseases.  
  
**Dr Toh Chin Chye:** Mr Speaker, Sir, I have nothing particularly to add to
what the Member for Katong has said except to thank him for the historical
references that he has made. It sounds amusing in these modern times. I am
glad I am receiving his support.  
  
Question put, and agreed to.  
  
Bill accordingly read a Second time and committed to a Committee of the whole
House.  
  
The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill.-[Dr Toh
Chin Chye].  
  
Bill considered in Committee; reported without amendment; read a Third time
and passed.

**ESTATE DUTY (AMENDMENT) BILL**

  
  
Order for Second Reading read,  
  
4.25 p.m.  
  
**The Minister for Finance (Mr Hon Sui Sen):** Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,
"That the Bill be now read a Second time."  
  
Honourable Members of the House are aware that Government has given several
fiscal concessions to help develop Singapore as a financial centre and promote
the Asian Dollar Market. In my last annual Budget Statement, I announced more
concessions to the same purpose. The concessions relating to estate duty are,
first, that non-resident deposits with Asian Currency Units and approved Asian
Dollar Bonds held by non-residents will be exempt from Singapore estate duty
with effect from 1st January, 1976, and, secondly, that Singapore Government
tax-free bonds. held by non-residents, will also be exempt from Singapore
estate duty from the same date.  
  
The Bill seeks to amend the Estate Duty Act by inserting a new section 1OA to
provide for these two concessions.  
  
Sir, I beg to move.  
  
Question put, and agreed to.  
  
Bill accordingly read a Second time and committed to a Committee of the whole
House.  
  
The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill. -[Mr Hon
Sui Sen].  
  
Bill considered in Committee; reported without amendment; read a Third time
and passed.

**ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (AMENDMENT) BILL**

  
  
Order for Second Reading read.  
  
4.27 p.m.  
  
**The Minister for Finance (Mr Hon Sui Sen):** Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move,
"That the Bill be now read a Second time."  
  
The Bill seeks to amend the Asian Development Bank Act by adding thereto a new
section 9A which will exempt the Asian Development Bank and the issue by the
Bank of shares, debentures, bonds, notes and other securities from the
requirements of the Companies Act.  
  
The Asian Development Bank (referred to as "the ADB") has so far not borrowed
from the Asian Dollar Market, although it has issued bonds in the capital
markets of New York, Tokyo. Zurich, Frankfurt. Luxembourg and Vienna. Before
the Bank can consider floating a bond in Singapore, it will be necessary to
remove certain legal constraints which arise from the broad definition of the
term "corporation" in the Companies Act. Under the Act, a "corporation"
includes any body corporate whether domiciled in Singapore or abroad. Although
the ADB is not a Company, it is deemed to be a Corporation under the Act and
is therefore required to comply with the requirements of the Companies Act in
the event of a public issue of its securities in Singapore. However, certain
sections in the Companies Act are not appropriate for application to the Bank
as an inter-governmental organisation.  
  
In order to facilitate the entry of the ADB into the Asian Dollar Market, it
is proposed to amend the Asian Development Bank Act of Singapore so that the
ADB will be deemed not to be a Corporation within the meaning of the Companies
Act.  
  
Sir, I beg to move. Question put, and agreed to.  
  
Bill accordingly read a Second time and committed to a Committee of the whole
House.  
  
The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill.-[Mr Hon
Sui Sen].  
  
Bill considered in Committee; reported without amendment; read a Third time
and passed.  
  

**ADJOURNMENT**

  
  
Resolved,  
  
"That Parliament do now adjourn sine die."-[Mr E.W. Barker].  
  

Adjourned accordingly at Twenty-nine minutes to

Five o'clock p.m. sine die.

